README.md, before:

# Domoticz VolvoRecharge Plugin
domoticz plugin for Volvo Recharge Full EV or PHEV vehicles

domoticzwrapper around Volvo API (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/) so your car sensors can be integrated into your home automation use cases.

## Features

### Volvo API
- availability status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/v2/endpoints/commands/#get-accessibility-status)
- recharge status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/energy/endpoints/recharge-status/)
- doors, windows and lock status, including locking and unlocking of doors (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/doors-windows-locks/)
- tyrepressure status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/tyres/)
- service status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/diagnostics/#get-diagnostic-values)
- start/stop climatisation (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/climate/)
- Retrieve Vehicle location (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/location/v1/endpoints/location/#get-location)
- Retrieves Vehicle warnings (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/v2/endpoints/warnings/)

### Other
- syncs SOC and charging status to ABRP (https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/7396339/SWTK5a8w)
- Estimates the number of kwh's used and charged (since the api only reports differences in battery percentage, this is only an estimation and not very accurate)

## Devices
pls look at the above links to API for device descriptions

There are 2 devices which can send commands to the volvo
- The CarLock switch can lock and unlock your car
- The climatization switch can start and stop climatizion.  
This last switch has a very simple implementatiation. If you start climatisation the switch will go off after 30 mins. This is just a timer and during this 30 mins you can stop the climatisation which was started by the plugin. The switch will not detect climatisation status when it was started using the app or the car itself (Limitation by the API: There is no API to check for climatisation status..)

## Instructions
- go to the plugin 
- (if you don't have a volco on call account) Create a Volvo on Call Username/password, which is linked to your vehicle. (basically: install the follow on call app on your handset and follow instructions)
- Enter the username/password in the plugin config.
- follow instructions on https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/docs/getting-started/ to register an app and copy/past the primary app key in the plugin config
- Optional: 
   - Set a VIN if you connected more than one car to your volvo account. If empty the plugin will use the 1st car attached to your Volvo account
   - Set an update interval. If you don't pay Volvo for the API, you're only allowed to do 10.000 calls per day.. so make sure not to set the update interval too low. The plugin does 4 calls on every interval.
   - Set API_KEY and token of ABRP (format api_key:token) Token can be obtained from ABRP app (selecting Generic method at "live data" will give you the token). API_Key can bet obtained by contacting ABRP developer (see instructions at this link:  https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/7396339/SWTK5a8w )
   - if in the domoticz settings the Longitude and Lattitude are correctly entered, the plugin will calculate the absolute distance to your car in km

## Security
This is a normal domoticz plugin, so as secure as every other one. However since with this plugin you can lock and unlock your car, check your if your domoticz install, especially if it's connected to the internet, if it is really secure.You don't want someone to hack your domoticz and then also have access to your car 

## Supported cars

Every car which is supported by the Volvo Energy API should theoretically work. This support can be found here: https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/energy/v1/overview/#availability

The plugin has been reported to work for
- Volvo XC40 Pure Electric
- Volco XC40 Pure Electric Twin
- Volco C40 Pure Electric
- Volvo C40 Pure Electric Twin
- Volvo XC60 PHEV

If you have seen it working on other car models, pls let me know by reporting an "issue" in this repository, i will add to the docs

## TODO
(requires update of the API on Volvo side, but if they are there i would like to add)
- Check Climatization status 
- Open/Close Open windows
- Set Charging Limits (Amperage/Percentage)
- Start/Stop Charging
- Honk/Flash (API is there, but does not seem to work)

Commit message:

also add kwh devices to cos

README.md, after:

# Domoticz VolvoRecharge Plugin
domoticz plugin for Volvo Recharge Full EV or PHEV vehicles

domoticzwrapper around Volvo API (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/) so your car sensors can be integrated into your home automation use cases.

## Features

### Volvo API
- availability status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/v2/endpoints/commands/#get-accessibility-status)
- recharge status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/energy/endpoints/recharge-status/)
- doors, windows and lock status, including locking and unlocking of doors (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/doors-windows-locks/)
- tyrepressure status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/tyres/)
- service status (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/diagnostics/#get-diagnostic-values)
- start/stop climatisation (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/endpoints/climate/)
- Retrieve Vehicle location (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/location/v1/endpoints/location/#get-location)
- Retrieves Vehicle warnings (https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/connected-vehicle/v2/endpoints/warnings/)

### Other
- syncs SOC and charging status to ABRP (https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/7396339/SWTK5a8w)
- Estimates the number of kwh's used and charged (since the api only reports differences in battery percentage, this is only an estimation and not very accurate)

## Devices
pls look at the above links to API for device descriptions

There are 2 devices which can send commands to the volvo
- The CarLock switch can lock and unlock your car
- The climatization switch can start and stop climatizion.  
This last switch has a very simple implementatiation. If you start climatisation the switch will go off after 30 mins. This is just a timer and during this 30 mins you can stop the climatisation which was started by the plugin. The switch will not detect climatisation status when it was started using the app or the car itself (Limitation by the API: There is no API to check for climatisation status..)

And then there are several energy devices. Since the API does not allow reading the used or charged energy, these are just estimations: If the battery percentage rises or drops, the plugin assumes charging or using and so updates the kwh devices accordingly. homecharging is assumed if the battery percentage is rising and the location is within 25 meters from home.

## Instructions
- go to the plugin 
- (if you don't have a volco on call account) Create a Volvo on Call Username/password, which is linked to your vehicle. (basically: install the follow on call app on your handset and follow instructions)
- Enter the username/password in the plugin config.
- follow instructions on https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/docs/getting-started/ to register an app and copy/past the primary app key in the plugin config
- Optional: 
   - Set a VIN if you connected more than one car to your volvo account. If empty the plugin will use the 1st car attached to your Volvo account
   - Set an update interval. If you don't pay Volvo for the API, you're only allowed to do 10.000 calls per day.. so make sure not to set the update interval too low. The plugin does 4 calls on every interval.
   - Set API_KEY and token of ABRP (format api_key:token) Token can be obtained from ABRP app (selecting Generic method at "live data" will give you the token). API_Key can bet obtained by contacting ABRP developer (see instructions at this link:  https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/7396339/SWTK5a8w )
   - if in the domoticz settings the Longitude and Lattitude are correctly entered, the plugin will calculate the absolute distance to your car in km

## Security
This is a normal domoticz plugin, so as secure as every other one. However since with this plugin you can lock and unlock your car, check your if your domoticz install, especially if it's connected to the internet, if it is really secure.You don't want someone to hack your domoticz and then also have access to your car 

## Supported cars

Every car which is supported by the Volvo Energy API should theoretically work. This support can be found here: https://developer.volvocars.com/apis/energy/v1/overview/#availability

The plugin has been reported to work for
- Volvo XC40 Pure Electric
- Volco XC40 Pure Electric Twin
- Volco C40 Pure Electric
- Volvo C40 Pure Electric Twin
- Volvo XC60 PHEV

If you have seen it working on other car models, pls let me know by reporting an "issue" in this repository, i will add to the docs

## TODO
(requires update of the API on Volvo side, but if they are there i would like to add)
- Check Climatization status 
- Open/Close Open windows
- Set Charging Limits (Amperage/Percentage)
- Start/Stop Charging
- Honk/Flash (API is there, but does not seem to work)
